thprac - A tool for practicing Touhou Shmups - Manual (v1.5)


I can't speak English well, please excuse me for any grammar mistakes or misspellings.


Index:
A. Brief Introduction
B. Usage
C. Feature Introduction: Enhanced Practice Mode
D. Feature Introduction: Built-In Trainer
E. Feature Introduction: Advanced Options (WIP)
F. Feature Introduction: Special Features Targeting Specific Games
G. Common Q&A
H. Licence Info
I. Other Information


A. Brief Introduction
Thprac is a tool for practicing the Touhou Series Shmups games. It greatly improves and expands the original practice mode in game.
Supports Windows XP SP3 and above. Windows 7 and above are recommended.
As of version 1.6, th17 (WBaWC) v1.00b and all Windows Touhou Shmups games before are supported. (Uwabami Breakers included.)
Simplified Chinese, Japanese and English are supported.


B. Usage
Place the thprac executable under target game directory and run it.
The game must be updated to the newest version available, and the filename of the game executable must remains unchanged. (Something like "thxx(x).exe", or in the case of EoSD, "ōīĢ¹Źg¢éŗĮ.exe" or whatever the hell it may be in your codepage.)
Thprac supports VsyncPatch and uses it automatically if the corresponding VsyncPatch files exist under the game directory.
For Steam support, launch the game from Steam first and launch thprac afterward.


C. Feature Introduction: Enhanced Practice Mode
This feature only supports the Main Series Touhou Shmups (PoFV excluded). Additionally, Fairy Wars and Uwabami Breakers are also supported.
The original practice menu will be replaced, you can change initial values and/or warp to a certain Non-Spell/Spellcard.
You can use your mouse or your in-game input (keyboard, gamepad, etc.) to control it.
In the case of using the in-game input, up/down key to change current option, left/right key to adjust value, slow key to adjust how much is changed for each adjustment.
In the case of using a mouse, you can double-tap on a slider-less numerical box and enter the value directly.
Replays will automatically save the parameters used and they can play normally when using thprac. (They will NOT play normally in the original games.)


D. Feature Introduction: Built-In Trainer
A built-in trainer is provided and can be summoned by using the Backspace key.
When the trainer menu is opened, use the listed hotkeys to toggle the corresponding modification.
Modifications remain effective regardless if the trainer menu is opened or not.

E. Feature Introduction: Advanced Options (WIP)
Press F12 to open/close the advanced options menu. As the name suggest, it provides advanced options (things like FPS adjustment). This is still a WIP.
Note that a mouse is required to operate this menu.


F. Feature Introduction: Special Features Targeting Specific Games
Certain games are provided with feature(s) outside the ones mentioned above, and they are listed here:
th06 (EoSD): Pause menu when using the enhanced practice mode is replaced, adding the Esc+R feature; screenshot with HOME key is added.
th14 (DDC): Certain Spellcards in the spell practice menu is provided with a phase-adjusting feature.
th16(HSiFS): Spell practice menu is enhanced, now it allows adjusting sub-season level and Spellcard phase, bug-fix for Stage 5 Spellcards is also provided.
th165 (Violet Detector): Fixed Esc+R.
th17 (WBaWC): Fixed Esc+R.


G. Common Q&A
1. Anti-Malware reported positive.
Add trust/exception in your anti-malware software.
This program contains no malicious code, but because of how it works, an anti-malware software might report it as a (false) positive.
You can use sites like VirusTotal to scan this program as a reference.

2. Localization support?
Thprac is compatible with thcrap, launch it after you launched the game with thcrap like you would for a Steam game.
Thprac does not support standalone localization patches (i.e. ones that have a dedicated .dat file).

3. It can't find EoSD.
Make sure the game is in version 1.02h, and the game executable is named "ōīĢ¹Źg¢éŗĮ.exe" or whatever the hell it may be in your codepage.

4. When warp to boss, the name of the playing BGM shows incorrectly.
This is a known bug, but because how troublesome it is to fix it and how it's just purely cosmetics I won't bother fixing it.

5. In EoSD/PCB/IN/MoF, I can't quit mid-game and save the replay.
Because of how these games were programmed, adding this feature would be quite troublesome, so currently there's no direct solution to this. Sorry for the inconvenience.
As a workaround, adjust your remaining life to a smaller value and suicide when you want to quit mid-stage.

6. What's the "Everlasting BGM" option in the trainer menu?
When this option is toggled on, and when you're practicing a certain Non-Spell/Spellcard, BGM will not be interrupted when pausing or restarting.

7. What's the "Coercive Reporting" option in the trainer menu?
This option is only available in Shoot the Bullet and Double Spoiler.
When toggled on, you gain infinite shutter time, there's no cool down in-between shots, and the crosshair is always locked onto the boss.
You cans use this option to skip to a certain phase quickly.

8. How do I switch language?
Use the "Alt+1", "Alt+2", "Alt+3" combo key on your keyboard.

óß. I found bug(s).
Refer to [I. Other Information].

10. The game goes crazy when I use thprac to launch it.
For unknown reasons, opening certain games (EoSD ~ MoF) using thprac under Windows 10 triggers some compatibility problems.
A workaround is to open the game first and launch thprac afterward.
Or, to truly fix the problem, use either VsyncPatch or "DX8 to DX9 Convertor". (Don't use both as they will conflict)

11. "Unsupported VsyncPatch version." shows when using the FPS adjustment feature.
You can find a compatible version at "https://en.touhouwiki.net/wiki/Game_Tools_and_Modifications#Vsync_Patches".
Note: Always use the rev7 version if available.

12. FPS adjustment seems to be defective when using VsyncPatch.
Certain tools ("DX8 to DX9 Convertor" for example) conflict with VsyncPatch, resolve these conflicts to solve this issue.

13. What are the "Marisa Laser Related" thingies?
These are features provided to solve all those problems caused by the Marisa laser bug in DDC.
I'll make a detailed tutorial later on, but if you're curious, there's a simple tutorial video (in Chinese) at "https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1vf4y1m7Ue".

H. Licence Info
You can check licence info by clicking the "Show license info" button in the advanced options menu.


I. Other Information
Author: Ack.
Contact: Email: ack7139@outlook.com / Github: https://github.com/ack7139/thprac
Please send me a email or open a issue if you have any problems or suggestions.


